What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

git creates a .git folder that it uses to track changes to files
without the .git folder, git cannot store the necessary info about verions


How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

Staging area are the files that will be committed in the next commit
Working directory is all the files in the directory, whether they are being tracked or not
Non-tracked files could be useful for files that will never change, or related notes
I don't really see that point for not tracking everything in the directory, at least at this point.


How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

You can select just the files connected to the change you are targeting
Other files that have changed can be committed at a different time, or not committed, as needed


What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

Making a new version, ie translate into Italian or create easy mode
Testing a new idea, ie rewriting functions or testing a new toolbar
Using a base software, but customized for different clients


How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

Diagrams of git structure help show which commits are associated with which branches
They also help see all of the branches at once and make clear where specific changes are located


What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

Merging two branches interleaves all the changes made to both branches into one branch
We show them on the diagram, even after the merge, as being separate paths because there could be a lot of changes on each branch we might want to review separately.


What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

Pros
There should be fewer human error mistakes
multiple changes on the same file will be included in the merge

Cons
Some kinds of edits could be seen as different but are actually redundant or overlapping
Some files or lines could be overlooked or forgotten when it comes time to manually merge

